[Music]
if you suddenly decide to find out how
many airline companies there are in the
world you might get thoroughly confused
some sources state that the number is
higher than five thousand others claim
that there are about 800 commercial
airlines but whatever the truth is pets
still a lot and among all these numerous
air carriers there's a pretty unusual
one the thing is it's existed for thirty
years but has never had a single flight
from the very beginning
balsa a US airline launched in 1989 had
great ambitions the carrier was planning
to provide its passengers with high
quality service in all three of the
classes it was going to offer but
excellent service wasn't the only thing
the airline advertised to attract loyal
customers Balto was supposed to operate
the only nonstop flight from JFK New
York to Leningrad a big city in the VINs
Soviet Union which is now st. Petersburg
getting permission from the d-o-t the
Department of Transportation is a long
process that's why I took Balta almost
two years to reach this stage but
eventually in 1991 with the permission
in its pocket the air carrier was ready
to start scheduled flights between JFK
and Leningrad as well as Riga Latvia
Minsk Belarus Kiev Ukraine and to
Blissey Georgia meanwhile the mass media
was swarming with news about the new
airline company and its plans to buy a
couple of new and several used Boeing
airplanes but then suddenly all the
articles about ball Tiye stopped as if
the airline had never existed and only
recently did the air carrier reappear
claiming that it still couldn't get the
operational approval from the US Federal
Aviation Administration by the time ball
just seemingly returned out of nowhere
it had already been operating for more
than 25 years but it still hadn't
transported a single passenger or a mere
package
apparently the airline had failed the
FAA evaluation seven times so far and
most of its failures have related to the
deployment of its evacuation slides
desperate the airline management even
moved its hub to Michigan where it's
easier to get the green light from the
FAA than in New York and guess what even
their ball Tia still failed its
certification tests it also became
apparent that despite its ambitious
shopping plans the company owned just
one 37 year old Boeing 747 aircraft
after being bought the plane flew only
once from Willow Run Airport to us Co to
Michigan where it was left at the
maintenance facility and never flew
again in 2016 the company had to take
its only airplane out of service after a
hired expert honestly told the
management that this aircraft wasn't the
best to launch the airline with so what
do we have now
a 30 year old carrier that's listed as
an existing airline company but has no
fleet tons of debt and plans as
ambitious as they were when the startup
was first launched Balti owners claim
that they're at the final stage of the
air carrier certification process even
though their website doesn't allow you
to make any reservations well we'll have
to wait and see and wait and wait as
we're waiting while this could be a long
video how about the rest of the airlines
that are functioning want to learn some
cool aviation facts you probably never
knew if you've ever flown during a
lightning storm
you know how terrifying it looks raging
around you at the height of several
thousand feet but no worries modern
airplanes are built lightning proof
what's more even though airplanes get
hit by lightning much more often than
you can imagine
there haven't been any crashes caused by
lightning since the 1960s now when you
enter a bathroom on board the plane and
lock it it remains unlocked and isn't
that a perfect setting for a
nightmarishly
embarrassing situation
well the truth is that the design of the
planes toilet door allows flight
attendants to open it in case of an
emergency
also thanks to this little trick the
cabin crew can prevent passengers from
using the bathrooms during the takeoff
or landing now when a flight takes more
than 13 hours flight attendants can use
special secret bedrooms to get rest and
deal with exhaustion such bedrooms
usually have about 5 to 10 beds inside
and the crew gets there via a hidden
staircase the Boeing 747 is one of the
most famous commercial airliners and is
often called the jumbo jet or the queen
of the skies it was the very first
wide-body aircraft which took its first
flight on February 9th 1969 but the most
amazing thing about this monster of a
plane is that it's made up of more than
6 million parts and all these details
can easily be controlled by just a
couple of pilots who are flipping
switches and pushing buttons with their
fingertips now for a long time I used to
think that an airplanes lifespan
depended on its age that's why it was a
big surprise for me to learn that in
fact the length of an aircraft service
depends on its pressurization cycles in
other words every time a plane flies its
fuselage experiences serious stress as a
result sooner or later the metal starts
to crack and it may lead to a crash that
means that an airplane used on long-haul
flights may serve much longer than a
plane that has several short flights a
day are you not only afraid of flying
but also embarrassed by this fact relax
it turns out you're not the only one
with this fear statistically more than
80% of the world's population is as
terrified of flying as you are or at the
very least they don't feel particularly
happy when they have to climb inside a
pressurized metal pipe with wings that
will then take them to a height of
several thousand feet and hurl them
through the air at over 500 miles per
hour and they serve drinks you might
need one now what's the dirtiest place
on a plane
nope not the bathroom it's the tray
table you open to enjoy your fish or
chicken such a table usually hosts more
than 2100 colony forming bacteria and
that's only on one square inch of its
surface for comparison a toilet flush
button has 265 bacteria per square inch
of space yuck
next time I'll probably use that wet
wipe they give me to clean the table
rather than to wipe my mouth the largest
airplane in the world is the Antonov
an-225 it weighs almost 600 tons
compared to this Leviathan the 350 ton
cargo plane Boeing 747-8 F looks like a
baby sibling and how about this
unsettling piece of information during a
flight pilots often fall asleep but then
who's controlling the plane I'm on maybe
the co-pilot
maybe the autopilot maybe no one in 2017
the British airline pilot Association
interviewed 500 pilots and 43 percent of
them confessed that they did actually
fall asleep while piloting a plane on
top of that 31% of the questioned
professionals admitted that sometimes
they had woken up from their nap to see
their copilot slumbering as well now it
may sound scary but a small number of
trouble people try to open the airplanes
exterior door mid-flight I can't imagine
why they would want to do something so
pointless and obviously fatal but
luckily it's impossible to open the
doors while the aircraft is in the air
and that's not because of complicated or
super-strong locks but because of the
pressure difference inside the cabin and
outside the plane so unless you notice
the Hulk boarding your flight you have
nothing to worry about
also think twice before nestling into an
airplane blanket the unpleasant truth is
that most air carriers washed these
blankets just once a month ever use that
laser pointer they can drive a cat mad
well you can play with that thing all
you want but never and I mean never
point that red dot at a plane according
to US law if you do
chances are you'll spend the next five
years in prison taking a new look at
your life now what do you picture when
you hear the term the black box
something black right
however the flight data recorder which
is another name of the black box is
bright orange first the particular
heat-resistant paint used for these
recorders has an orange hue besides this
color makes it easier for rescuers to
locate the box after an accident
remember I told you about 6 million
details Boeing 747 consists of well how
about more than 140 miles of wiring
stuffed inside the jet that's half the
length of the Grand Canyon plus the
wiring alone weighs about 3500 pounds ok
your turn
do you know any other curious facts
about airplanes let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
take off just yet we have over 2,000
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life